3×3 Magic Square
1. Problem
Original image: Fill in numbers so that every row, column, and diagonal has the same sum.
Given: The top-middle is 9, the top-right is 4, and the middle-right is 3.
Task: Complete the 3×3 grid so every row, column, and diagonal has the same sum.
2. Method 1: Use the 1–9 Magic Square Property
If the square uses the numbers 1 to 9, the total sum is 45.
So each row, column, and diagonal must sum to 15.
This completes the magic square.
3. Method 2: Let the Common Sum Be S
Let the top-left number be a, and let the common sum be S.
Now use the first column:
So S = 15, and the remaining cells can then be found.
This gives the same final square.
4. Method 3: Derive a Position Relationship
Supplementary image: Compare one column, one diagonal, and one row with the total sum to derive a relationship between a corner and two edge-middle cells.
As shown, label the cells a,b,c / d,e,f / g,h,i and let the common sum be S.
Add the three equations above, then subtract the total of all nine cells, which is also 3S. We get:
So the top-left number equals the average of the middle-right and bottom-middle cells.
In this puzzle, the middle-right cell is 3. Since the center is 5, the second column gives:
Therefore:
Then continue filling by rows and columns to obtain the full square.
This is a very useful magic-square position relationship.
5. Final Answer
Final answer shown above. Every row, column, and diagonal sums to 15.